sysdig basic monitoring guidline documentation (#86)
bcgov/platform-developer-docs: src/docs/app-monitoring/Sysdig-Monitoring-Guidline-for-shared-services-and-apps.md

---

> title: Sysdig Monitoring Guildline for shared services and apps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Sysdig Monitoring Guideline for Platform Shared Services
```

slug: sysdig-monitor-setup

> description: Default monitoring standards that will be applied to all our services and apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Service Golden Signal - monitoring standards and best practise that will be applied to Platform Shared Services.
```

keywords: sysdig, sysdig monitor, SLI , monitoring, openshift monitoring, developer guide, team guide, team, configure

page_purpose: Documented monitoring metrics and monitoring tools that will describe the approach to monitoring and alerting that will be applied to all platform shared services and apps.

audience: developer, technical lead

author: Billy Li

content_owner: Billy Li

sort_order: 2
---

> The four golden signals of SRE are latency, traffic, errors, and saturation. SRE’s golden signals define what it means for the system to be “healthy.”  And our monitoring standard will be build based on those four aspect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The four golden signals of Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) are latency, traffic, errors, and saturation. SRE’s golden signals define what it means for the system to be “healthy”. The following monitoring standard will be built based on those four aspects.
```

# Using PromQL

> The Prometheus Query Language (PromQL) is the defacto standard for querying Prometheus metric data. PromQL is designed to allow the user to select and aggregate time-series data. And building dashboard in sysdig is havily rely on PromQL. The PromQL language is documented at [Prometheus Query Basics](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/basics/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Prometheus Query Language (PromQL) is the defacto standard for querying Prometheus metric data. PromQL is designed to allow the user to select and aggregate time-series data. And building dashboard in Sysdig is heavily relying on PromQL. The PromQL language is documented at [Prometheus Query Basics](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/basics/).
```

> # Resources monitoring with Sysdig(Saturation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Resources monitoring with Sysdig (Saturation)
```

---
title: SRE Guideline for Platform Shared Services

slug: Sysdig-monitor-setup

description: Service Golden Signal - monitoring standards and best practices that will be applied to Platform Shared Services.

keywords: SRE, Sysdig, Sysdig monitor, SLI, monitoring, OpenShift monitoring, developer guide, team guide, team, configure

page_purpose: Documented monitoring metrics and monitoring tools that will describe the approach to monitoring and alerting that will be applied to all platform-shared services and apps.

audience: developer, technical lead

author: Billy Li

content_owner: Billy Li

sort_order: 2
---

## Intro

SRE, which stands for Site Reliability Engineering, has become an important concept to ensure an application's reliability by quickly returning the system to a steady state. Software can be used as a tool to gain full visibility into the health of an application or system, allowing us to identify and resolve issues before they impact stakeholders.

In this document, we will explore the basic concept of SRE and demonstrate how to set it up using the Registry application as an example.

#### Registry

> The registry is an application where teams can submit requests for provisioning namespaces in OpenShift 4 (OCP4) clusters. The registry allows teams to:

Reviewer: let's call it `BC Platform Services Product Registry` for more accurate naming ;)

Reviewer: maybe helpful to describe the project structure: API, web frontend, DB, automation provisioner, etc...

- Update project contact details and other metadata;
- Request that their project namespace be created in additional clusters;
- Request other resources such as KeyCloak realms or Artifactory pull-through repositories; and

> - Receive management from the platform services team.

Reviewer: does registry actually do number 2 and 3 (with keycloak realms)??? also what does `Receive management` mean

> More details about the Registry app and its workings can be found [here](https://github.com/bcgov/platform-services-registry/blob/master/docs/Whole-project-workflow.md).

Reviewer: the link is invalid

### Setting up SRE
The scope of SRE encompasses the deployment, configuration, and monitoring of the app. It also covers the availability, latency, change management, emergency response, and capacity management of services in production. To ensure optimal performance and reliability, we use several tools and methodologies that align with SRE principles.

#### SLA
The client should be at the center of every aspect of your customer agreement. An incident may need fixing ten different issues on the back end. But from the client's perspective, the only thing that matters is that the system works as it should, and facts should be reflected in your SLAs and SLOs. Be sure to limit your promises to high-level, user-facing functionality, and always use plain language in SLAs. Based on this, we can come up with some SLA for the Registry:

* Normal users can successfully load the Registry dashboard within 5 seconds.
* Admin user can successfully load Registry dashboard within 13 seconds.
* An approved product request can be provisioned within an hour.
* Application is up online 99% of the time.
* Update product requests can be processed within an hour.

#### SLO 

> The definition of s SLO is a service level objective: a target value or range of values for a service level that is measured by an SLI. Google has a really [good doc](https://sre.google/workbook/implementing-slos/#:~:text=For%20example%2C%20if%20you%20have,50%25%20of%20the%20error%20budget.) for how to gets the start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The definition of SLO is a service level objective: a target value or range of values for a service level that is measured by an SLI. Google has a really [good doc](https://sre.google/workbook/implementing-slos/#:~:text=For%20example%2C%20if%20you%20have,50%25%20of%20the%20error%20budget.) for how to gets the start.
```

Reviewer: based on the google link, it's important to know how to calculate error budget if ppl were to use the error budget–based approach for reliability, can you provide more details on that end?

what you want to promise your customers is deciding how reliable you want your service to depend on what your customers expect. For example, if your SLA states that your customers will receive a response to each request they make in 300 milliseconds, then perhaps your SLO should state that the response will be returned in 200 milliseconds. Choosing an appropriate SLO is hard. Once we have SLA that we know can make our users happy, SLO is like the bottom line of our promise. Therefore, it is in our best interest to catch an issue before it beaches our SLA so that you have time to fix it. And this promise often comes up with consequences if we break it. Again, I will use the Registry as an example and the period is for each month:

* Retrieving all product information from DB should be less than 8 sec. 
* Retrieving 30 product information from DB should be less than 2 sec. 
* Web, API, and DB should be up 99.5% of the time

> * DB should have a backup every 30 mins

Reviewer: can you explain why a backup every 30 mins, for example which SLA does this match to?

> * Provisioner jobs can be completed within 40 mins

Reviewer: app teams won't understand that provisioner jobs correspond to "Update product requests" in SLA if there is no explaination how things work. might be better to name it as `automation jobs for OCP Project Set change requests`

The reason for breaking those objects or booking maintenance windows needs to be announced in [#internal-devops-registry](https://chat.developer.gov.bc.ca/group/internal-devops-registry). 

#### SLIs

SLI golden signals include request latency, availability, error rate, and system throughput. Those matrices define what it means for the system to be “healthy”. 

The registry has the following monitoring standards built based on those four aspects.

> * Number of successful HTTP requests / total HTTP requests (success rate) should be greater than 99.99%

Reviewer: how does this SLIs related to the SLO and SLA defined earlier? for example, why 99.99%? Does is correspond to "Web, API, and DB should be up 99.5% of the time"?

* The response time per request should be less than 300ms
* Web and API resources utilization (used/requested) should be less than 80%

Sysdig and Uptime.com are some tools that I use to get SLI metrics for the Registry

### Resources monitoring with Sysdig (Saturation)

The saturation is a high-level overview of the utilization of the system. How much more capacity does the service have? When is the service maxed out? Because most systems begin to degrade before utilization hits 100%, we also need to determine a benchmark for a “healthy” percentage of utilization. What level of saturation ensures service performance and availability for the user?

We monitor resources from CPU, ram, and storage.

#### Using PromQL

The Prometheus Query Language (PromQL) is the standard for querying Prometheus metric data. PromQL is designed to allow the user to select and aggregate time-series data. And building a dashboard in Sysdig is heavily reliant on PromQL. The PromQL language is documented at [Prometheus Query Basics](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/basics/).

> ### Team Scope

Reviewer: why is this section named as team scope?

---

> title: SRE Guideline for Platform Shared Services

Reviewer 2: In the PR it the file .md still reads Sysdig-Monitoring-**Guidline**-for-shared-services-and-apps please make sure to update it correctly, I believe @ShellyXueHan made a suggestion 

Slug of the website should also be all lower case: sysdig-monitor-setup

slug: Sysdig-monitor-setup

description: Service Golden Signal - monitoring standards and best practices that will be applied to Platform Shared Services.

keywords: SRE, Sysdig, Sysdig monitor, SLI, monitoring, OpenShift monitoring, developer guide, team guide, team, configure

page_purpose: Documented monitoring metrics and monitoring tools that will describe the approach to monitoring and alerting that will be applied to all platform-shared services and apps.

audience: developer, technical lead

author: Billy Li

content_owner: Billy Li

sort_order: 2
---

> 

Reviewer 2: Last updated: **Month, day, year**
